The President:
45 years ago, we made a solemn compact as a nation that senior
citizens would not go without
the health care they need.
This is the promise we made
when Medicare was born.
And it's the responsibility of
each generation to keep that promise.
That's why a report issued this
week by the Trustees who oversee
Medicare was such good news.
According to this report, the
steps we took this year to
reform the health care system
have put Medicare on a sounder
financial footing.
Reform has actually added at
least a dozen years to the
solvency of Medicare -- the single longest extension in
history -- while helping
to preserve Medicare for
generations to come.
We've made Medicare more solvent
by going after waste, fraud,
and abuse -- not by changing seniors' guaranteed benefits.
In fact, seniors are starting
to see that because of health
reform, their benefits are
getting better all the time.
Seniors who fall into
the "doughnut hole" --
the gap in Medicare
Part D drug coverage --
are eligible right now for a
$250 rebate to help cover the
cost of their prescriptions.
Now, I know for people facing
drug costs far higher than that,
they need more help.
So starting next year, if you
fall in the doughnut hole,
you'll get a 50% discount on the
brand-name medicine you need.
And in the coming years, this
law will close the doughnut hole
completely once and for all.
Already, we've put insurance
companies on notice that we have
the authority to review and
reject unreasonable rate
increases for Medicare
Advantage plans.
And we've made it clear to the
insurers that we won't hesitate
to use this authority
to protect seniors.
Beginning next year,
preventive care --
including annual
physicals, wellness exams,
and tests like mammograms -- will be free for seniors as well.
That'll make it easier
for folks to stay healthy.
But it will also mean that
doctors can catch things
earlier, so treatment may
be less invasive and less expensive.
And as reform ramps up
in the coming years,
we expect seniors to save an
average of $200 per year in
premiums and more than $200 each
year in out of pocket costs, too.
This is possible in part through
reforms that target waste and
abuse and redirect those
resources to where they're
supposed to go: our seniors.
We're already on track to cut
improper payments in half --
including money that goes to
criminals who steal taxpayer
dollars by setting up insurance
scams and other frauds.
And we won't stop there.
Because by preventing the
loss of these tax dollars,
we can both address the runaway
costs of Medicare and improve
the quality of care
seniors receive --
and we can crack down on those
who prey on seniors and take
advantage of people.
So we are no longer
accepting business as usual.
We're making tough decisions to
meet the challenges of our time.
And as a result, Medicare is
stronger and more secure.
That's important.
Because Medicare
isn't just a program.
It's a commitment to
America's seniors --
that after working
your whole life,
you've earned the security of
quality health care you can afford.
As long as I am President,
that's a commitment this country
is going to keep.
Thanks.